OLAS Vision Statement

The Orne Library of Miskatonic University holds, as well as conventional reference materials, many rare and valuable texts in the restricted collection. These are in increasing demand from scholars at the University and worldwide. Since its inception, the Library has been using a manual index card catalog, and a manual ticketing system to manage loans. However, with the increasing number of students at the University and with the increasing demands for access to the restricted collection, we feel that the time has come to automate both the catalog and the ticketing system.
 
After preliminary discussion with the University IT department, we have come to the conclusion that placing the library catalogs on a computer system would allow scholars to access the collection more effectively, and would also take some of the workload off the library staff who are under increasing pressure. As part of this project, the manual ticketing system will also be automated. This will allow the librarians to manage the day-to-day loans more effectively, and to track overdue loans more easily. This is especially important for the restricted collection as over the years, it has been particularly prone to attrition attributable partly to outright theft and partly to a series of unusual and unfortunate events that have affected some of the borrowers. The librarians have recently implemented a vetting system for access to the restricted collection that allows them to restrict access to the catalog to trusted parties only. This has greatly reduced the number of losses and vetting should be incorporated into the automated system.

Another driver for automation is that the Library needs to be able to exchange catalog information about the restricted collection with Innsmouth Public Library, which also has a collection of rare and valuable books. Innsmouth has already automated its restricted collection catalog and the Miskatonic system must be capable of exchanging catalog information with the Innsmouth system. Scholars should be able to access both Miskatonic and Innsmouth catalogs provided they have permission to do so.

Our IT department has proposed that the library catalogs will be made accessible to scholars through a web browser interface.